The economic, political, and social factors that reinforce unsustainable consumption practices, like the use of quickly disposed products and low efficiency transportation, are mutually reinforced.  This project attempts to model these pressures in order to identify "leverage points" within the system surrounding consumption behaviors: policies and feedback loops where small changes can lead to large results.  It employs system dynamic models of national, regional, and organizational dynamics, as well as multiple maps and networks to describe the interrelations between different regions and components.  To make building this large model manageable, the project uses (1) a new integration of system dynamics into a spacial and hierarchical framework, (2) an open system for researchers to contribute to peer-reviewed sub-models, and (3) multiple computation tools for evaluating model's dynamics and identifying leverage points.

The paper consists of a review of relevant literature, a survey of the model's structure and capabilities, and research results from individual analysis tools to be used within the model, drawing on frequency-domain econometrics, self-organized criticality, and climate prediction downscaling.

------

The economic, political, and social factors that reinforce unsustainable environmental practices, like high-input agriculture and low efficiency transportation, are mutually reinforced.  This project attempts to model these pressures in order to identify "leverage points" within the systems surrounding environmental degradation.  The goal is to identify policies and feedback loops where small changes can lead to large results.  To do so, it aims to employ system dynamic models of national, regional, and organizational dynamics, as well as multiple spatial maps and networks to describe the interrelations between different regions and components.  To make building this large model manageable, the project uses (1) a new integration of system dynamics into a spatial and hierarchical framework, (2) an open system for researchers to contribute to peer-reviewed sub-models, and (3) multiple computation tools for evaluating model's dynamics and identifying leverage points.

The paper consists of a review of relevant literature, a survey of the model's structure and capabilities, and research results from individual analysis tools to be used within the model, drawing on frequency-domain econometrics, self-organized criticality, and climate prediction downscaling.
